Summary of technical presentations (#9)
socrse/hpc-rse-sig: articles/meetups_2025.md

### Evgenij Belikov: [Monitoring hardware performance counters on ARCHER2 using LIKWID](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1ovhbUe8vni2c5R5TMSepVapRBh3ZVUiN/view?usp=drive_link)

> This presentation covered using the open source performance counter tool [LIKWID](https://hpc.fau.de/research/tools/likwid/) on ARCHER2. The speaker explained various reasons for using this tool such as when the simulation is correct and you want to use resources effectively and that for most uses you do not need to recompile or edit your code. Multiple tools were covered and the speaker explained what they do and the results of running these tools. The examples included `likwid-pin`, `likwid-perfctr` and the main workhorse on ARCHER2 `likwid-mpirun`. With these examples custom feature that are required for it to run on ARCHER2 as well as the job script and outputs were explained. At the end there were a few questions asked where the speaker provided more information on additional resources (docs, webinar and training courses) and clarified that likwid does provide energy measurements.

Reviewer: I do not understand the second  sentence. Is it checking whether the simulation is correct? Or can it only be used when the simulation is correct?

Author: changed

The issue of researchers not considering performance and efficiency was stated and that there is a lot of low-hanging fruit to optimise and profile their code. After outlining
the situation a demonstration of the carpentries styled course on profiling and optimising python code was shown (https://carpentries-incubator.github.io/pando-python/). Towards
the end of the presentation was a call for involvement both with the course material and the rpc sig.

### Sara Villa: [Open communities as an essential part of upskilling and training development](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1c55gGoWgxzE2TxbsATilY_RSlW8P8FufPMuIcVlw8Ec/edit?usp=sharing)

The speaker outlined both open communities and the open seeds training program. They explained their experience and work done in both the Turing way and OLS. How the Open communities exist to make
teaching efforts sustainable following the method of "Training the trainers". With both Open leadership training and ally skills workshop. The presenter outlined that this is an opportunity for

> the hpc rse sig community to work and contribute to this.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the HPC RSE SIG community to work and contribute to this.
```

### Community and Training Panel

The panel brought back both speakers as well as Mashy Green (UCL), Janetta Steyn (Newcastle) and an audience member agreed to join our open invite. The panel provided their views and experiences
on training senior academics. They outlined the difficulties they have had with them being resistant to change, time constraints in training them. How to get academic institutions to fund training
was asked and discussed amongst the panel. Sustainability and energy consumption were a common theme throughout the event and was also asked in this session. Particularly as training others to be
conscious of energy consumed both in AI tools and in running code. Further discussion of embodied emissions, run time estimates for energy use, linking back to the reasonable compute sig and how to train
users to understand how much compute is necessary to solve a problem. The final question asked about specialised HPC hardware and training users to use it. The panel spoke about the benefits of higher

> efficiecny for certain workloads. Also, how complier level portability helps test more hardware as well as how DiRAC GPU feasibility studies found that applications can drive procurement choices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
efficiency for certain workloads. Also, how compiler level portability helps test more hardware as well as how DiRAC GPU feasibility studies found that applications can drive procurement choices.
```
